Welcome back in this lecture we're going to talk about template variables using the template function
we can directly render an HTL file for a flask web application.
As we just saw in the previous lecture though we haven't really leverage the power of Python at all
yet.
We want a way to be able to use Python code in our application changing and updating variables in logic
and then be able to send that information and those results to the template we can use the Jinja template
engine to do this Jinja templating will let us directly insert variables from our Python code to the
HTL file.
The syntax for inserting a variable is two sets of curly braces.
And then you put in the variable name that you're passing through.
So you see this Explain of some examples in just a little bit but to clarify we can pass in Python strings
Lisp dictionaries and more into the templates.
We set parameters of our choosing in the renderers template function and then use that doubles the curly
braces syntax to insert them in the template.
Let's head over to a text editor and show some examples of this by actually getting Python variables
and inserting them into the template.
Already Here here at the flask application from the previous lecture and the previous lecture we set
it up to actually run the template where it said hello to the site and gave you a picture of a puppy.
We're going to do now is just have this be a very simple sign that says hello let's save this and right
now we're just rendering basic h Tomales we did last time.
So when I run this file if I say Python they set it up by head over to my browser then I should see
just hello.
So we bring that over here going to zoom in just a little bit.
So I see.
Hello.
Now let's see how we can actually render some variables inside of our template.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to create a variable here instead of my index function and I'm just
going to call it some underscore variable and I'll set it equal to any name.
So we'll just set it to Jose silver to set it to any string you want.
So right now I have some variable and this is in Python what I want to do is inject that into basic
HTML.
So the way I do that is I decide on some variable name.
So I'm going to say my variable and then I'm going to set it equal to some variable.
So just to zoom out a little bit so we can see the whole picture here.
I've created some variables that are equal to Jose and then said my variable is equal to some variable.
Then what I am going to do after I say this head back over to basic h tim.
And I'm going to inject this by setting those two sets of curly braces and then putting in my underscore
variable.
So notice what's happening here.
Whatever parameter name you choose as my underscore variable that's what you're actually going to pasan
into this HTL through your template.
And that's what Jinja template is doing for you.
So then I want to refresh the page and bring it back over.
I get to see.
Hello.
Jose Scotius clarify what the variable names are and how they're connected.
Sorry.
Here I have some variable is set equal to Jose.
And then I get to the side whatever variable name I want to be injected into my Jinja template.
Often this my variable and some variable.
They're actually going to match up which makes sense because you don't want to have more confusion.
So often it would look something like this.
You'll say my variables equal to say than my variable my variable that we don't have to have two sets
of names.
Instead you have one name in the Python code which matches the same name inside of your HTL script template
OK.
So now let's see a more complex example.
So far we just passed in a string.
Let's say the letters in that string is going to be list it let's make this a little shorter will say.
In fact let's just call this name and we're going to say this is name and saying my variables are to
my variable I'll say name is equal to name.
So I'm going to say that my name is equal to Jose.
Basically Steimle I'm passing name UKL to name.
And then what it is to do is update my variable here to then be name save that and then refresh this.
I should still see.
Hello Jose.
So we're good.
Now what I want to do is show you how we can pass on a list so we have letters here is equal to list
name.
So I'm going to say letters is equal to letters so I'm grabbing the letters from line 8 and then passing
it in as a variable called letters.
Want to save this and then back here as another hetter.
We're going to inject letters that should be a list of all the letters in this name.
So coming back I have Hello Jose if I refresh this.
Now I see that actual list j o s e.
So I have this list of the letters from Jose.
And then we can do other things such as back in the template where I could do is index off letters so
I can say zero here and that should an index.
If I come back here and refresh just that first letter.
So we're out actually able to use some small bits and pieces of Python logic from within our template.
So for that case actually indexed letters and we can do things like slicing as well.
So I can say from index to go all the way to the end and then bring up that file again.
Hello Jose.
Refresh this.
And then I see SNB.
So now I see that slice of the list.
So that's logic with that list variable inside of the template.
Then what we can also do is pass and things like dictionaries and then come back here to my basic that
pi.
Let's actually create a dictionary will say pup dictionary is equal to.
And I'm going to create a dictionary that has pup name as a key and then let's say Sammy is the name
of that puppy.
And here underneath friend a template I'm going to now passen
dictionary is equal to pup dictionary.
Save that.
And notice I can pass this in but I don't need to actually use it inside of my template.
That's not going to cause an error.
If you happen to pass in a variable but not use it let's go and say Pop dictionary.
Save this.
I bring in my file again.
So I have.
A slice of that list.
And our refresh and I get to see that dictionary pup name and Sammy Blits imagine.
I only wanted to grab Sammy what I could do here is come back to put dictionary and call that key pup
underscore name just as you would have a normal Python dictionary.
Save that and now to refresh this.
And now I just see Sammy.
So that's an example of passing in a string a list and a dictionary into our actual template.
Again the main idea to get here is the following.
You get to create whatever variables now you want using the Python code that you're already familiar
with.
Then you decide on a template variable name and you set it equal to whatever Python variable you want.
Typically these will share the same name.
That way when you actually come to your HTL template you can inject them using this double set of curly
braces notation and you need this double set of curly braces notation in order for this team all document
to understand that you're actually injecting this from your flask application.
And that's really all there is to it.
And then you can also see that we are able to extend the logic of Python in our template as well.
Things like name slicing and indexing and grabbing dictionary keys later on we're going to learn the
syntax to do things like for loops from within our templates.
But right now the main idea we should have is you get to create in Python then send in those template
variables to your template and inject them using this Jinja templating syntax.
All right.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums.
You can check up the example code for more examples of passing and template variables.
We'll see you at the next lecture.